---
title: Settings
---

## General settings

// TODO // Screenshot of fold in mailing list settings. highlight first section

The first field, _name_, is simply the name of this list in Mailcoach. Only you can see this.

The "_From email_" will be the sender for any email campaigns that target this list. This will usually be an email address that you configured while setting up your mail configuration with MailGun / Amazon SES / … .

The "_From name_" value is used as the sender's name in received emails. If you leave this field empty, the subscribers' mail client will fill this in according to their defaults. We suggest using the name of your organisation for this field.

You can also publish the mailing list to a public url, to be consumed by an RSS reader. This URL will be available on your domain and is automatically generated by Mailcoach.

## Reports

// TODO // Screenshot of reports. highlight this section

You and your colleagues can receive some stats about this list and any campaigns sent to it. Fill in all the email addresses you want to send these reports to in the "To…" field, each separated by a comma.

- "Confirmation when a campaign gets sent to this list": Receive an email when a campaign is **sent**. If you scheduled a campaign, this report will be sent when the scheduled date is reached.

- "Summary of opens, clicks & bounces a day after a campaign to this list has been sent": 24 hours after sending a campaign, you will receive an email report with the opens, clicks and bounces.

- "Weekly summary on the subscriber growth of this list": Every Monday morning you will receive an email report with the changes in subscribers to your list.

// TODO // examples of report emails?

## Require confirmation (double opt-in)

When checking the "Require confirmation" checkbox, Mailcoach will send double opt-in mails to new subscribers. This will require them to confirm their email address before receiving any emails. By default, this email will include a link to a Mailcoach page, asking the person to confirm their subscription.

This option can be enabled to prevent spam, both to and from your mailing list. If you disable this option and have a public-facing subscription form, you can reasonably expect a lot of bots to subscribe to your mailing list, causing your mailing costs to go up, reports to be skewed and a general decline in the health of your list.

// TODO // screenshot of default confirmation page

You can also configure Mailcoach to use a custom page and/or send out custom confirmation emails that you created yourself. Refer to the 2 options that become available when checking this box:

- [Confirm subscription](TODO:link) in the "_Landing pages_" section.

- [Confirmation mail](TODO:link) at the bottom of the settings page.

## Allow POST from an external form

// TODO // screenshot of this setting enabled, with some tags. The option + extra field highlighted in screenshot

By enabling this option, you can create forms on your website that allow people to subscribe themselves to your list. Simply set the action (endpoint) of your form to the URL that was generated for this mailing list, and make sure to send at least a value for the "email" field in form submits, like so:

```html
<form
  method="POST"
  action="https://domain-where-mailcoach-runs/mailcoach/subscribe/<uuid-of-emaillist>"
>
  <div>
    <label for="email">Email</label>
    <input name="email" />
  </div>

  <div>
    <button type="submit">Subscribe</button>
  </div>
</form>
```

You can allow these subscription forms to automatically add tags to these subscribers. Each form can set different tags, so you can segment your mailing list effectively. Enter all the allowed tags in the field on the settings page, then create a hidden form field for the "_tags_" value. Make sure to place it between the existing `<form></form>` tags that you created in the previous step:

```html
<form
  method="POST"
  action="https://domain-where-mailcoach-runs/mailcoach/subscribe/<uuid-of-emaillist>"
>
  <!-- other fields -->

  <input type="hidden" name="tags" value="tagA;tagB" />

  <!-- other fields and subscribe button -->
</form>
```

You can also optionally add fields for the user's first and last name:

```html
<div>
  <label for="first_name">First name</label>
  <input name="first_name" />
</div>
<div>
  <label for="last_name">Last name</label>
  <input name="last_name" />
</div>
```

Finally, Mailcoach can also redirect users after they subscribe. There are some more hidden fields for the different types of redirects, the names should be self-explanatory:

```html
<input
  type="hidden"
  name="redirect_after_subscribed"
  value="https://your-site/subscribed"
/>
<input
  type="hidden"
  name="redirect_after_already_subscribed"
  value="https://your-site/already-subscribed"
/>
<!-- only required if your list has double opt-in enabled
    <input type="hidden" name="redirect_after_subscription_pending" value="https://your-site/redirect-after-pending" />
-->
```

## Landing pages

// TODO // screenshot with section highlighted

These are the different pages that users will be sent to upon different interactions with your mailing list. We provide some default landing pages for these, but you can configure your own.

You don't need to provide any actions on these landing pages, they are simply the place users will be redirected to after visiting one of your list's links (confirmation/subscribed/unsubscribe).

These values will not be used if you created hidden fields for redirections in your form during the previous step.

// TODO // screenshot of default landing page with caption "The default landing page for new subscribers"

## Welcome mail

// TODO // screenshot met "customized welcome mail" opengeklapt, placeholders zichtbaar. Body ingevuld met generic welcome message

Mailcoach can send welcome mails after people subscribe (or confirm) to your mailing list. We provide a default, but you can create your own by checking the "_Send customized welcome mail_" option. In your custm email, you can enter some placeholders, that Mailcoach will fill upon sending your email.

// TODO // screenshot default welcome mail

## Confirmation mail (double opt-in)

// TODO // screenshot met "customized welcome mail" opengeklapt, placeholders zichtbaar. Body ingevuld met generic double opt-in message. Zeker `::confirmUrl::` gebruiken.

This email will be sent to new subscribers if you have the "_Require confirmation_" option enabled.

Again, you can use the default that we created for you, or you can use your own email and use some of the available placeholders. Make sure to include the `::confirmUrl::` in this email, so people can actually confirm their subscription to your mailing list. After clicking this link, they will be redirected to your "_Confirm subscription_" landing page.

// TODO // screenshot default welcome mail
