docs/app/lists/subscribers.md, before:

---
title: Subscribers
---

This page shows an overview of all the email addresses that have subscribed to this email list. When clicking on an email address, you can see some more of their details, and which campaigns they have already received while on this list.

// TODO // screenshot of subscribers list

## Statuses

There are a couple of different statuses that a subscriber can have: _unconfirmed_, _subscribed_ and _unsubscribed_.

### Unconfirmed

When people have signed up for your list, but have not yet confirmed their subscription, they will be _unconfirmed_. You will only see this status when you have double opt-in (_"Require confirmation"_) enabled for this list.

You can manually confirm email addresses using the action menu next to their name, but we don't suggest doing this without consent of the person this account belongs to.

### Subscribed

These are the email addresses that will actually receive your emails.

### Unsubscribed

If people have clicked the "unsubscribe" link in an email campaign, they will not receive any new emails from this list. Their email address will keep showing in this list until you manually remove them. You can easily remove all the unsubscribed users by using the action menu at the top.

You can manually revert an unsubscribe by using the action menu, but we strongly suggest not to abuse this action to respect users' privacy.

## Importing and exporting subscribers

// TODO // import
Import subscribers: csv uploaden (staat ook al in huidige docs beschreven)

- Vooral vermelden dat geïmporteerde gebruikers die op status “unsubscribed” staan, niet overschreven zullen worden

You can also export the entire list, or parts of it. By filtering by name email address, status or tags, you can choose which lines will be included in an export.

An export will create a csv file with email addresses, first names, last names and tags.

Commit message:

wip app docs (configuring lists)

docs/app/lists/subscribers.md, after:

---
title: Subscribers
---

This page shows an overview of all the email addresses that have subscribed to this email list. When clicking on an email address, you can see some more of their details, and which campaigns they have already received while on this list.

// TODO // screenshot of subscribers list

## Statuses

There are a couple of different statuses that a subscriber can have: _unconfirmed_, _subscribed_ and _unsubscribed_.

### Unconfirmed

When people have signed up for your list, but have not yet confirmed their subscription, they will be _unconfirmed_. You will only see this status when you have double opt-in (_"Require confirmation"_) enabled for this list.

You can manually confirm email addresses using the action menu next to their name, but we don't suggest doing this without consent of the person this account belongs to.

### Subscribed

These are the email addresses that will actually receive your emails.

### Unsubscribed

If people have clicked the "unsubscribe" link in an email campaign, they will not receive any new emails from this list. Their email address will keep showing in this list until you manually remove them. You can easily remove all the unsubscribed addresses by using the action menu at the top.

You can manually revert an unsubscribe by using the action menu, but we strongly suggest not to abuse this action to respect users' privacy.

## Importing subscribers

// TODO // screenshot scherm met "import subscribers" omcirkeld
// TODO // screenshot scherm van import page

You can easily import a list of subscribers into an existing list. Upload a csv file with email addresses and, optionally, first and last names, and Mailcoach will start importing these into the list. You can follow the progress of the import, see any errors that occurred during the process, and download the uploaded file by using the action menu on the right.

Email addresses that have the _unsubscribed_ status will not be resubscribed when running an import. Confirmation mails will not be sent out to users, even if you have enabled double opt-in for this list. Imported email addresses that had not already unsubscribed, will receive the _Confirmed_ status and will receive any subsequently sent campaigns.

## Exporting subscribers

You can also export the entire list, or parts of it. By filtering by name email address, status or tags, you can choose which lines will be included in an export. An export will create a csv file with email addresses, first names, last names and tags.
